This is beautiful. So elegant.
The hot water's in the kettle for washing.
It's late.
Mrs. Fan, you should rest early.
Thank you, Fuling.
What do you think?
It's lovely.
So this is the surprise Qian meant.
FORTUNE
There's hot water on the table.
Wash up first.
All right.
Wait.
Pour it in here instead.
Mine's already gone cold.
Into the basin?
You are not into foot baths?
I…
I don't know what you're used to,
but in my house, we share one basin.
If that doesn't suit you,
I can ask Fuling to heat another kettle.
No need. That's not what I meant.
I'll rinse off outside with cold water.
Cold water?
Using cold water in weather like this?
You'll catch a chill.
I'm used to it.
There's only one bed.
You and Ning sleep.
I'll step out for a bit.
You can't stand outside all night.
Fuling said this is the only room left.
It's fine.
I'll ask one of the inn boys
if I can squeeze in
for the night.
I'll head out.
What did I mess up?
Was it because of that sack?
Or the foot bath?
Is soaking feet that frightening?
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
Mr. Yan, it's very late.
Why aren't you in your room?
She's with Ning. It would be inconvenient.
That was my oversight.
All the staff rooms are shared.
But there's one fellow
whose snoring is unbearable.
No one can sleep
in the same room with him.
If you don't mind,
you can use his room tonight.
I don't mind.
You truly mean
to leave the Fan sisters behind?
If you part now,
meeting again will not be easy.
How could I take them with me?
Bring them to the front lines?
Sleep in the open,
live with blades at our throats?
Precisely because battle is merciless,
you need a woman
who can bear the Xie family name.
In my view,
she is no weakling.
She is great.
She is stronger
than many highborn daughters.
But I only wish to see her grow
as she is now, wild as grass.
The burden of a great clan's matron
would only bind her.
Wake up. Wake up.
Scholar Song? Quick, help him up.
Careful.
Sir, you're covered in wounds.
Were you robbed?
One.
Two.
Three.
-Last night… I think…
-Four.
-Last night…
-Five.
-I think a child hacked at me.
-Six.
VERNAL VITALITY. AUSPICIOUS ABUNDANCE
You didn't sleep at all, did you?
I told you that lad snores like thunder.
He must have kept you up.
I'll fetch some tea.
Go lie down a while.
Ning is being looked after
by the inn boys.
You truly mean
to leave the Fan sisters behind?
If you part now,
meeting again will not be easy.
Did you hear me?
I did.
Where's your mind wandering?
Nowhere.
Just woke up. Head's not clear yet.
What were you saying?
I said
Ning is being looked after
by the inn boys.
I can manage the stall myself.
It's fine. I'll go with you.
-I need to stop by the bookshop anyway.
-Chunky Celery!
Mr. and Mrs. Fan,
I'm so sorry.
Wrong way. This way.
Serves me right.
Are you hurt?
I'm fine.
NOODLES
Why aren't you eating?
You look distracted.
Did the bookshop owner give you trouble?
No.
-The bill, please.
-Coming.
That'll be 30 wen, sir.
-I'll pay.
-All right.
A grown man dining out
and letting a woman foot the bill.
No shame at all.
Must be living off her.
I know him.
That's the An family's
live-in husband. A kept man.
Who knows what Mrs. An sees in him.
Probably that pale face of his.
Finished?
-The bill, please.
-Right away.
Twenty-one wen.
Make it 20.
Another pretty face living off someone?
With that face, he could.
Exactly.
Did you overspend buying things for Ning?
No, it's just…
Looks like he doesn't know how to recover
after Mr. An embarrassed himself.
The coins are underneath.
No need.
I was worried they might not have change.
Your New Year gift. Open it.
Gold and silver are of no use to me.
You're not taking it? Wait.
Give it here.
You've changed.
-Marriage suits you.
-Why do you talk so much?
Fine, fine. Take it.
Sir, you must be joking.
We're a small stall.
We cannot break an ingot that size.
I…
-I have smaller change.
-That will do.
We'll settle it with small silver.
Much appreciated. Do come again.
You keep it.
Look at this young fellow.
So young.
I'll hold onto it for you.
Could be some noble's son
wandering out here
to see how common folk live.
Perhaps.
No one would bring an ingot
just to eat noodles.
Where did you get that kind of money?
Don't tell me the bookshop owner
gave it to you again.
Just keep it.
XIGU ALLEY
Look, Changyu's back.
You're finally back. Something's happened.
What is it?
The yamen suddenly ordered a levy.
Grain and silver.
By headcount.
Four taels per person.
That much?
-That's daylight robbery.
-Exactly.
We can manage ours.
But the hired laborers and tenant farmers
have no land, no savings.
The New Year just passed.
What are they supposed to do?
-That's right.
-We won't survive this.
I heard people from the next village
went to the yamen to beg.
Kneeled there all day
and never even saw the magistrate.
We can scrape together what we owe,
but some families in Xigu Alley
could empty their homes
and still not raise one tael.
It's just after the holiday.
Everyone's pockets are empty.
I need to see Grandfather.
With Uncle gone, who will cover his share?
Do you want me to come?
No.
I'll go quietly and leave.
I won't cross paths with that woman.
You'd draw too much attention.
Why is the county collecting
so much silver all of a sudden?
When grain is levied,
every county under Jizhou Prefecture
receives the same decree.
But grain and silver together
is unheard of.
Unless other counties are doing the same,
this magistrate may be lining
his own purse.
That's enough.
Almost forgot.
Slip this into Mrs. Zhao's room quietly.
The New Year emptied everyone's coffers.
I don't want them to worry.
All right.
Grain and silver both.
They're pushing people into the grave.
Some old relics
can't carry, can't lift,
just sit inside,
begging for food and water.
They're a burden to the living.
Exactly.
An old man who refuses to die
is a thief of breath.
Grandfather.
Get up.
Are you all right?
Changyu, why are you here?
Go. Leave.
This useless old man
brought this on himself.
His son is dead,
and he still clings to this house.
Shameless.
I will drive him out
sooner or later.
Who's there?
You jinx.
‎What are you…
Grandfather can't even get a sip of water,
and you're eating meat?
You… Get out!
Pah!
This house is mine.
You leave.
You and Uncle said it yourselves.
Without a male heir,
the house passes to the nearest kin.
Your husband is dead.
What right do you have to occupy it?
My daughter can take in a husband.
The Dayin Code states
if a widow is unfilial, the grandfather
may dismiss her in his son's place.
You cursed jinx.
I'll not hear another word--
Fan Changyu.
Striking an elder will land you in prison.
Father! Father!
Fan Changyu struck
your eldest daughter-in-law!
She's assaulting me!
Open your eyes and look.
The deed bears my father's name.
Grandfather can testify.
What? That cannot be.
I can remove you
from the Fan family this instant.
Changyu, I beg you.
Don't cast out a widow and her child.
Your uncle's mourning period
has not even ended.
-I'm begging you.
-What did you do while I was in mourning
for my parents?
Get out.
Grandfather.
Keep the deed with you.
Hide it somewhere safe.
As for driving that family out,
that's your call.
Changyu.
You're just like your father.
Kind-hearted to a fault.
Go on. Leave me be.
Life and death are Heaven's will.
I don't believe in Heaven's will.
-Then come with me. Come home.
-Go.
Even if I have to smash my head
against this wall, I won't go with you.
I don't deserve it.
Nonsense. What do you mean
you don't deserve it?
Erniu wasn't my blood.
I dragged your whole family into this.
This is retribution.
All of it.
Seventeen years ago,
your father brought your mother
to Xigu Alley.
He paid me a large sum.
Said he'd made enemies on escort duty
and needed to lie low.
My Erniu had been taken
as a child. Never found.
So your father asked
if he could register here
under the name Fan Erniu.
So I told everyone
my long-lost son
had found his way home.
The day before it happened,
your parents came to see me.
They left a letter
and this deed.
I asked him
if the old enemy tracked him down.
He would not answer.
He only said
that their deaths
were the only way to ensure
you and Changning survived.
You know your uncle.
He'd fallen into gambling
these past years.
After your father died,
he stole the letter and burned it,
trying to seize everything
your family owned.
This old body of mine was useless.
I couldn't stop him.
Then your uncle met his end.
Your aunt proved heartless.
I told myself
this was punishment for my selfishness.
So Father and Mother
knew before they died.
They knew they would not live long.
But why would Father think
that dying together with Mother
would protect me and Changning?
And why does that differ
from what Lord Li said?
What really happened?
Why are you sitting here alone?
Tell me something.
Were my parents truly killed by bandits
over a treasure map?
Do you
want to avenge them?
I do.
Even in my sleep.
If the officials' conclusion
turns out to be a lie,
what would you do?
Why would the authorities lie?
Like your uncle colluding with Clerk Guo
to swallow your estate.
If even a county office
hides that kind of rot,
then above it,
prefecture, court,
the entanglements only grow denser.
Factions. Colleagues.
Former classmates. In-laws.
Officialdom in Dayin
is a web spun tight.
What does that have to do
with my parents' deaths?
I am only saying.
The imperial court may be vast,
but at the end of the day,
it is just men holding office.
However fiercely you protest,
you are still placing your grievance
before the emperor.
No matter who is involved
in my parents' deaths,
I will keep digging.
Web or no web, there is law.
There is reason.
If there isn't,
then this world truly falls apart.
If I had been born a man,
I might have taken the civil exams
or the military route,
entered officialdom,
and cleared my parents' names myself.
But I am only a woman.
I cannot hold office.
I know no powerful officials.
The only path left is money.
Money can turn even ghosts into laborers.
The silver required
to make powerful men move
will not be small.
Every hurdle can be crossed.
There will be a way.
I've been meaning to ask.
Is there something you want
for your birthday?
I don't feel like celebrating this year.
Name one wish.
Consider it…
Let it stand as your gift
for the years ahead.
You're leaving?
Do you have to leave?
That was silly of me.
It's not as if you won't return.
Right?
LI'S RESIDENCE
My betrothal to the Grand Princess
is decided.
Since Her Highness has given her word,
the match is settled.
What difference does two years make?
I thought you might be displeased,
since the wedding
will not take place at once.
After your sister entered the palace,
and now with the Grand Princess
willing to marry into our family,
our house will once again
stand at the height of honor.
In this lifetime,
that alone fulfills my wish.
Ah, yes.
An urgent dispatch arrived today.
Take a look.
Wei Xuan has detained General He?
Forgive me.
He is a loyal minister,
a capable commander, and my teacher.
To see him treated so unjustly,
I cannot remain idle.
Then,
you will leave tonight.
Depart immediately and aid He Jingyuan.
And while you are there,
keep Wei Xuan in check.
You don't mind him siding with Wei Yan?
Wenkan,
do you know
how fragile the court stands now?
Your teacher, He Jingyuan,
is a man of unshakable loyalty.
His heart is for the throne
and the people alone.
He lowered his head to Wei Yan
only because Wei Yan's suspicions
left him no choice.
And now he sits in chains for it.
So you believe
Wei Yan is letting Wei Xuan act recklessly
to isolate loyal officials?
Once,
Wei Yan and I
both served the Eastern Palace.
We swore then
to defend the realm of Dayin.
Now he has grown
into a power unto himself,
grasping at authority
and driving out all who oppose him.
Our Li family
has long been his biggest headache.
I know
you are like your teacher.
You care for the people.
You wish to shield the innocent.
If you truly hope
to see your ideals realized,
there is only one road forward.
That is
to uproot completely of Wei Yan
and the corrupt faction around him.
Only then can the court be cleansed
and the realm made secure.
Wenkan,
you are a good man.
Your sense of loyalty
is both your greatest strength
and your gravest flaw.
It is I who have drawn you into this.
With all my heart, I'll give everything
to help you bring down Wei Yan.
Our northwest forces
are being pushed back at every turn.
Wei Xuan has imprisoned He Jingyuan.
He refuses orders and will not withdraw.
He says that in the field, a general
answers to the war, not the court.
He says he will regroup
-and fight once more.
-Fight again?
With weary troops and broken morale?
In this freezing weather,
at the New Year's time?
What battle does he imagine
he could fight?
You. Take my command seal.
Force him to hand command
back to He Jingyuan.
Then,
bind him and bring him back to me.
Understood.
Grandfather,
Marquis Wu'an was ensnared
in the Chongzhou campaign.
I have reliable source confirmed
that Xie Zheng still lives.
If we could join forces with him…
He is not Wei Yan.
Even if uncle and nephew
have fallen out as rumors say,
blood ties do not sever so easily.
Do not speak
of winning over Marquis Wu'an again.
Spread out. See if anyone is alive.
-Yes.
These were killed by Wei Xuan's troops.
Such reckless slaughter
is beyond reason.
It was not Wei Xuan.
I have men tracking his movements.
Someone else is stirring the embers.
-Quick. Send word to General He.
-At once.
My lord, look.
Footprints. Someone escaped.
Or was one deliberately spared?
Murder! Murder!
They've slaughtered us!
Good people, Ma Village is poor.
We could not pay
the grain levy or silver tax.
The village head led us
to the county yamen
to beg for mercy.
But halfway there,
we were ambushed by county soldiers.
I lay among the dead
and survived by chance.
Brothers and sisters,
we must gather every household.
Come with me and demand justice
from that cursed official.
Reclaim our grain!
Take back our grain!
-Demand justice!
-Kill the corrupt official!
-Take back our grain!
-General.
-Why have you come?
Wei troops have slaughtered
innocent civilians.
It seems Prince Changxin
has begun to move.
YIXIANG RESTAURANT
He was fine yesterday.
Now he's dead just like that.
-We can't just let this go.
-That's right.
She should pay with her life.
‎-Someone's gotta answer for this.
‎-The victim's at the door.
-He ate here and died.
-Dead overnight.
‎A grand place like this.
Excuse me. What happened?
You haven't heard?
A man died after eating at Yixiang.
His family's been here
since dawn demanding justice.
Yixiang Restaurant is a den of murder.
That woman running it
should be arrested and executed.
Exactly. A life for a life.
-Isn't that right?
-Right.
A life for a life.
Charging sky-high prices
and poisoning the food.
Yesterday a guest suddenly collapsed.
Ms. Yu thought it was epilepsy
and sent for a doctor at once.
The family was grateful at first.
They took him home.
Then he died in the night.
This morning,
they brought a coffin
and started making a scene.
Saying we must pay with a life.
It's obvious they're extorting her.
-Exactly.
-Right.
What did Qian say?
She tried to reason with them,
offered compensation
just to calm them down.
But those bastards refused outright.
They came looking for trouble.
She suspects
another restaurant put them up to it.
So she reported it.
It's been quite some time,
and still no word back.
Isn't that infuriating?
Of course it is.
-That bastard.
-Someone's targeting her.
So what do we do?
We can't just stand here waiting.
I have a plan.
But first, draw the bailiffs
away from the entrance.
Disgraceful.
See those three?
The loudest ones.
The one with stubble. The one in the cap.
The one in black.
Never coming here again.
-Never.
-Unbelievable!
They owe us an explanation.
I've long heard the owner
-dabbles in shady tricks.
-Now!
‎Hey, what are you doing?
A debt must be paid.
Never seen a gambling house
collect before?
Get lost. All of you.
Go.
Take it away.
Don't try anything.
Talk.
Who sent you to stir up trouble
at Yixiang Restaurant?
No one sent us.
Someone died eating here.
Are we not allowed to ask for justice?
You've bound us here.
What's next, kill us?
Silence everyone for good?
This place isn't a restaurant.
-It's a butcher's den. A slaughterhouse.
-That's right.
A death trap--
You talk too much.
That tongue's quick.
Cut it out and feed it to the dogs.
No, wait.
Heroine, that's against the law.
-Heroine.
-Wait up.
-Cut it for real.
-Heroine, have mercy!
Of course.
He struggled too much.
Didn't get the whole thing.
Just a piece.
Pig tongue does look convincing.
Bring a dog.
Feed it.
Now.
Who put you up to this?
Lie once,
and your tongues feed the dogs too.
-I'll talk.
-Let me go first.
Enough.
-You.
-It was Clerk Guo.
One of his attendants came to us.
You're lying.
Milady, we swear we're not.
It was Clerk Guo's attendant who found us.
Clerk Guo has no quarrel with Yixiang.
Why would he do this?
-We don't know.
-Still playing dumb?
Men! Cut their tongues.
We don't know.
We truly don't. We really don't know.
-We're telling the truth.
-Let them go.
You're not dragging them to court?
You heard them.
Clerk Guo was behind it.
So a rival restaurant
bribed Clerk Guo to frame Yixiang?
It's worse.
Worse how?
Yixiang may not survive this.
I've spent half the day calling in favors.
Not a single door opened.
Even Magistrate Cui refuses to see me.
My family has ties with Constable Wang.
I'll go beg him to help.
Don't.
I appreciate it.
But don't involve Constable Wang.
You'll drag him into trouble.
Ms. Yu, trouble.
The bailiffs just stormed in
from the back.
I'm going now.
I'll go as well. Let's see who they are
and what they're after.
Don't defend me.
You'll end up in court for nothing.
I know Magistrate Cui.
I can handle him.
What matters is this.
Stay here. Do not let anyone near Bao'er.
You are the proprietress of Yixiang?
I am.
Take her.
Fine. I'll go to the yamen with you.
‎NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
‎IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang